In Figure 24a, the sum of A2 + B2 in the left column should be C2.

*****

In the section "Neon Instructions", the operation of the example instruction
"VADDW.S32 Q0, Q0, D2" is slightly misstated; the operation will actually
promote (sign extend) both 32-bit signed integer elements of D2 to 64 bits and
then add them to the two 64-bit signed integer values in Q0, saving the results
(two 64-bit signed integer sums) in Q0.

The VADDHN.S32 instruction is incorrect; it should be VADDHN.I32 since the
distinction between signed and unsigned is irrelevant when only the top half of
each vector element (in the sum) is copied to the destination.

*****

In Program 24b, the comment "Transpose Matrix" is not an accurate description
of what the two VZIP.32 instructions do.  They actually interleave the vector
elements of their operands.

Program 24b does not store the middle two rows of the rotated matrix in the
correct order with respect to each other.  To fix this, swap the contents of
registers Q1 and Q2 before performing the stores.

*****

In Figure 24f, the matrices shown are 2x3 matrices, not 3x2 matrices as
described in the text.  The first dimension of a matrix is the number of rows,
followed by the number of columns.

*****

Figure 24h is incorrectly captioned as the multiplication of 4x4 matrices.  In
fact, a 2x3 matrix is being multiplied by a 3x2 matrix, yielding a 2x2 matrix
as shown in Figure 24i.

In Figure 24i, the bottom right element is incorrectly shown as -1.  It should
be 1 (0 * 3 + 3 * - 1 + 1 * 4).

*****

Figure 24j incorrectly shows a plus sign (+) instead of a multiplication sign
(x).

*****

In the section "Matrix Math", the description of Program 24d incorrectly states
that registers D16-D19 and D20-D23 correspond to registers Q12 and Q13.  In
fact, these D registers correspond to registers Q8-Q11.

*****

In the section "VLD and VST in their Stride", "VLSD" should be "VLD".

*****

In the section "VLD and VST in their Stride", there should not be a space
between VLD and 2.8 in the first example instruction.

*****

In the section "VLD and VST in their Stride", the second VLD2.16 example
instruction should be VLD2.32 to match the description of it in the text.

*****

In the section "VLD and VST in their Stride", the desciption for the VLD4.8
example instruction is that of a store instruction (VST4.8), not a load
instruction.
