The ARM1176JZF-S CPU, running at a 700 MHz base frequency, as in the original
Raspberry Pi Model B and the Raspberry Pi Zero, has a processing speed
approximately equivalent to that of a 300 MHz Pentium II introduced in 1997.
At the maxmimum CPU clock frequency of 1 GHz, the processing speed of the
ARM1176JZF-S is approximately equivalent to that of the fastest Pentium II (450
MHz) that Intel produced, starting in 1998.  Intel discontinued the Pentium II
in 2003, the same year that ARM introduced the ARM1176JZF-S.

A name brand (Compaq Presario) complete Pentium II PC system with 450 MHz
processor, 128 MB of RAM, 10 GB hard drive, and 17 inch monitor cost $2500 in
1998.  With 512 MB of RAM and no monitor, the price would also have been around
$2500.  512 MB of RAM was the maxmimum amount that could be cached in the early
versions (all Klamath and some Deschutes) of Pentium II processors.

In 2015 when the Raspberry Pi Zero was introduced, the board together with a 16
GB microSD card, keyboard, mouse, case, power supply, microUSB to USB/Ethernet
adapter, and Ethernet cable cost around $100.  Adding a monitor would double
the price, but the Raspberry Pi Zero like all Raspberry Pi computers can be run
"headless" (no keyboard, mouse, or monitor).  Even with a monitor, the cost of
the fully configured Raspberry Pi Zero computer would have been less than 10%
that of the aforementioned 1998 Pentium II PC.

In 2021, when used in USB gadget mode and connected to a separate desktop
computer, the Raspberry Pi Zero ($5) with a 32 GB microSD card ($8), official
case ($9), micro USB to USB-A cable for power and networking ($5), GPIO header
($0.95), and USB to TTL serial console cable ($10) cost less than $40, with
soldering required to attach the header to the board.  A minimal working
configuration would require only the Raspberry Pi Zero board ($5), 16 GB
microSD card ($6.50), and micro USB to USB-A cable ($5) and would cost less
than $20... a remarkably low price for a general purpose networked RISC
computer running a modern, full-featured Unix-like operating system with a full
suite of development tools.

And interestingly, while the Raspberry Pi Zero is no supercomputer, it does
have approximately the same floating point computational speed (200 MFLOPS) per
CPU core as a Cray J90 from 1994.
